Feature/modeling and vis and tracking (#1)
snowplow/consent-accelerator: content/tracking/tracking_1.md

+++
title = "Setup your tracking"
weight = 1
+++

Depending on your frontend infrastructure and Snowplow setup, you can use either our JavaScript tracker for a `<script>` tag option or our Browser tracker for a more modern web development setup.

In both options, the API is similar with only minor differences in the setup and method calls.

{{< tabs groupId="package manager" >}}
{{% tab name="Package Manager" %}}

#### **Step 1:** Install browser-tracker package

Install the `@snowplow/browser-tracker` and `@snowplow/browser-plugin-enhanced-consent` via npm, yarn or any other package manager of your choice. Example using `npm`:

```bash
npm install @snowplow/browser-tracker @snowplow/browser-plugin-enhanced-consent
```

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
I think these get rendered out so deleting

#### **Step 2:** Create the tracker

In your `src` folder, create a file called `tracker.js`. Inside it create the `tracker` object using the snippet below to use it anywhere in the application:

> - Tracker Name: `'sp'`
> - Collector Url: `'{{Url for Collector}}'`
> 
> ```javascript
> import { newTracker } from "@snowplow/browser-tracker";
> 
> export const tracker = newTracker("sp", "{{Url for Collector}}", {
>   /* tracker options */
> });
> ```
> 
> In addition to the basic tracker, you can add any number of options for using Snowplow's more advanced features. <a target="_blank" href="https://docs.snowplow.io/docs/collecting-data/collecting-from-own-applications/javascript-trackers/browser-tracker/browser-tracker-v3-reference/tracker-setup/initialization-options/">See more on our documentation</a>.
> 
> ---
> 
> #### **Step 3:** Configure the tracker to use the `EnhancedConsentPlugin`

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
As the web accelerator is a pre-req, lets merge these steps. We could also include the same recommended settings we used there for continuity

Reviewer 2: On that front, what I think would be a good idea is to make this an expandable section which on the advanced accelerators is by default closed, but I would not remove it completely.

WDYT ?

Reviewer 3: Sorry am a bit lost here. Is this in regards to step2 or step3?

Reviewer 2: We have added the Advanced Analytics accelerator as a 'prerequisite' so probably the reader has gone through these steps previously.

My suggestion would be not to remove the instructions completely but just to create an expansion panel with steps 1, 2 and 3 which would be closed by default.

**Note**
I would not consider this a blocker for now.

Reviewer 3: Think an expansion panel would work well here.

;(function (p, l, o, w, i, n, g) { if (!p[i]) { p.GlobalSnowplowNamespace = p.GlobalSnowplowNamespace || []; p.GlobalSnowplowNamespace.push(i); p[i] = function () { (p[i].q = p[i].q || []).push(arguments) }; p[i].q = p[i].q || []; n = l.createElement(o); g = l.getElementsByTagName(o)[0]; n.async = 1; n.src = w; g.parentNode.insertBefore(n, g) } }(window, document, "script", "{{Link to sp.js file}}", "snowplow"));
</script>
```

---

#### **Step 3:** Configure the global `tracker` instance

You can now create the `newTracker`, with the following arguments. This creates an instance of a basic tracker without any additional context.

- Tracker Name: `'sp'`
- Collector Url: `'{{Url for Collector}}'`

```javascript
window.snowplow("newTracker", "sp", "{{Url for Collector}}", {
  /* tracker options */
});
```

In addition to the basic tracker, you can add any number of options for using Snowplow's more advanced features. <a target="_blank" href="https://docs.snowplow.io/docs/collecting-data/collecting-from-own-applications/javascript-trackers/javascript-tracker/javascript-tracker-v3/tracker-setup/initialization-options/">See more on our documentation</a>.

> #### **Step 4:** Configure the tracker to use the `EnhancedConsentPlugin`

Reviewer: Same as npm installation steps, lets merge these steps

To add the `EnhancedConsentPlugin` on the JavaScript tracker and enable the usage of the enhanced consent API, you should include it as shown below:

❗❗**NOTE: The script below should be executed **before** any enhanced consent API can be called successfully.**

```javascript
window.snowplow(
  "sp:addPlugin",
  "https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@snowplow/browser-plugin-enhanced-consent@3/dist/index.umd.min.js",
  ["snowplowEnhancedConsentTracking", "EnhancedConsentPlugin"]
);
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> Now the tracker has everything required to start collecting consent preference data from consent management platform interactions. On the next step we are going to see how to use the API integrating with a real consent management platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tracker is ready to start collecting consent data, in the next step we cover how to use the API with your CMP 
```
